But before finishing the app,
I want to enhance a little bit
the installation experience.
So the first thing that
I'm going to do now is to
uninstall the app here in Android.
Codepad, I'm going to uninstall
the app and let's see again,
how the installation
experience looks like.
If I refresh the page now, I need to
go to the menu and hit install, or
sometimes I'm going to see
a little snippet at the bottom.
But maybe I would like to have another
button in my toolbar that says Install
that will trigger automatically that
installation behavior so let's do that.
Going back to VS code in my HTML, so
we need to add another button here,
it will be a third button.
So I'm going to copy this and
we should clone this.
And this is going to be bottom install.
And for the icon,
I can use one that is called download
that looks like an arrow
to install an app, and
also what I need is to disable this
button when we are in standalone mode.
So for that I will need an ID or
a way to access this line,
so we can disable the whole item.
So this is going to be item installed and
then in CSS,
in our media query for a standalone,
I'm going to say that for
that item install, I want display none.
Which means we don't want that button when
we are using the app from the icon in
the home screen, or
in the dock or in the start menu,
because it's already installed, okay?
Make sense?
So remember that if you're using minimal
UI or full screen,
you also need to update the list here.
Or you can use a comma in media
queries to have more than one,
this is how you do an or
operator in media queries.
So you can say standalone or
minimal UI, and
then you're not going to see that button.
The next step is to add
the JavaScript code.
So we go to app JS and
we need to have another,
Even handler for Python installed.
But in this case, unfortunately,
we don't have an a straightforward API.
It's a little tricky, the API,
it's called BeforeInstallPrompt and
it's not an API, it's an event.
If we Google BeforeInstallPrompt,
we are not going to see any
reference from the W3C.
It's on MDN but this is because today
is not part of any standard and
only Chrome and Edge or Chromium based
browsers are supporting this event.
And they are committed to support
that in the future as well.
So this is not available in Safari or
Firefox.
So what we need to do, we need to listen
for that event over the window option.
It's called beforeinstallprompt.
And what we typically do here
is we call preventDefault.
In this case, it will prevent the browser
to render the dialog on the screen
inviting the user to install the app
because we will have our own UI for that.
And what we need to do is to store
the event object that we receive for
later usage.
So for example, we can create
the variable here, global, or
in this case in the scope of a function
that we typically call this deep event.
We start as null, And
we save the event that we receive
as an argument as bip event.
Bip stands for beforeinstallprompt,
that's the name of the event.
Now when you click install,
we need to check if
that bip event is actually there,
and if it's there,
we're going to call the method prompt.
What happens if it's not there?
It can be many things,
it can be an incompatible browser or
maybe your PWA is not
passing the criteria.
Or maybe the user has
already installed the PWA
because if you already have the PWA,
it doesn't make any sense to
invite you to install it again.
If that happens here,
I will mark this as a TODO.
We need to show the user information
on how to install the app.
For now we can make an alert saying,
to install the app look for
Add to Homescreen or
install in your browser's menu.
Because in that case, there is no way to
trigger the native installation dialog so
the user needs to go and
install that manually.
Let's try this on desktop.
So here I am in Chrome, and now you
can see at the bottom, in the toolbar,
we have the Install button.
If I click on that button,
you can see that the native
installation dialog is triggered.
Let's try the same on Android.
So on Android,
I have the Install button at the bottom.
If I click there, you can see it's
also triggering the native dialog.
But before finishing this part,
I want to show you how you can
even enhance this Android
installation experience more.
Going back to be VS code,
I will open the web app manifest and
I'm going to show you two properties
that you can set that will
enhance the installation
dialogue experience on Android.
And potentially other
browsers in the future and
potentially other platforms in the future.
If you set a description and
it's just a text
explaining what your
app is about like this
app lets you add nodes
while you're coding.
And if you add another
property called screenshots,
with at least one screenshot following
the same object type as in icons.
So we need a source, a size, and a type.
So what I need is on a screenshot.
If you have one or
more screenshots of your app,
you will see how different
the experience is.
So first let's take a screenshot,
for example using the iOS simulator,
I can take on a screenshot
from here like that.
And that will be good enough.
On my desktop, now I have this screenshot,
I will just rename that as screenshot png.
And I'm going to put that in my icon
folder, I can add another folder for this.
Like that.
So, then I can now go, and
use here the right URL.
And for the sizes, VS code can help us.
At the bottom, it says 11702532.
That's all.
Now let's go back to Android and
see what's different.
So I have just refreshed twice to
actually get the latest content.
If I hit Install, you can see a completely
different dialog with my description.
The screenshot and if you have more than
one, you have a horizontal scroll bar and
an install button that looks much
better than the original add
to home screen little
imitation banner that we see.
So if you wanna get this
enhanced experience,
you need at least one screenshot.
If you have more, it's better,
and you need the description.
And now if I Install is the same process,
it's going to mint an APK on the server.
What happens if we try to click Install
in Safari, what we'll see is an alert,
okay, that you should change with a
different instruction within your HTML and
you know how to do that.
That's because beforeinstallprompt event,
it's actually never fire in Safari.
And the same would happen in Firefox, or
in desktop if you have
already installed the app.
And that's how you enhance the experience
and you push or invite your
users to install the app without
a manual interaction with the manuals.